G'day and welcome back to Buildsum and in today's video what I want to show you is how we calculate
the drop off
on our roof
But basically what the drop off i,s if I zoom in here it
is the distance down from the top plate to
Where it would be level with the end of our rafters so it's this distance
here formed by this yellow triangle
So from the top of the plate down to a point that's level with the bottom of our rafter
Okay, so that's the drop off, now the common uses for the drop off
1. is to give us a point for our brick layer to lay their bricks to
Now that would generally have to be
10, 15mm lower than our drop off because you have to keep a distance or a
Clearance between our eave and our brickwork if you had level eaves and the other reason that we'd use it
It's so that we could locate
where the top of the windows would have to finish if you're going to run our eave in
flush out of the top of the windows, so
You need to work out how to calculate our drop off
So it's a reasonably easy we need to know couple of things the formula is
TAN times the Roof pitch and then we times that by the eaves width
Okay, so in this case our
Roof pitch is 30 degrees the angle here and
Our eaves width is
300mm from the Brickwork
to the outside of the rafter however
because this is a brick veneer example. We need to add 110mm for our brick and
40mm for our cavity
so that will give us a total of450mm for our eaves widths
Okay
So there's a formula there
TAN 30 x 450mm
and as I said before 300 + 110 + 40 gives us the 450
so the answer to that is
0.259807 so let's say
260mm is our drop off now. This is a truss roof and we don't have any birds mouth however if
We were to have a bird's mouth
Then you can see that. There's a distance here
from
Where our triangle finishes to the top the top of the plate and we need to?
accommodate all we need to add that distance into it if we have I traditionally cut roof with a bird's mouth
So the first step is exactly the same we've worked out that
It's 260mm from here to here all we have to do is add
that remaining Birdsmouth in now quite easily to measure that distance or it could be given to you
However, I have some cruel sadistic people
use a method called horizontal bearing and what they do is. They give you this distance here
Now I don't know why they would but it happens in some examples
So I'm going to show it to you
So basically all that is if you have a look at that if we take that little triangle [here
that's just a smaller version of this triangle here, so the same formula applies, so if we go down
TAN 30 x 24mm
actually gives us 13856mm so let's say 14mm
40mm height the door distance here 14mm so all we have to add is so all we have to do is add
260mm and 14
that gives us
274mm as our drop-off in this example
So there you go. There's how we work out the drop-off for both the truss and a conventually cut roof with a bird's mouth